Homework 1
================

Name: Xi Peng UNI: xp2213 Date: 09.21.2024

# Problem 1

## Section 1 - Data import

The “penguins” dataset has 344 rows and 8 columns, containing
demographic information of 344 penguins between 2007 and 2009. The
important variables are: species, island, bill_length_mm, bill_depth_mm,
flipper_length_mm, body_mass_g, sex, year. Specifically, the dataset
provides the demographic information about penguins, such as sex, year,
bill depth and length, and flipper length, and body mass. Also, island
and species are also included. The mean flipper length is 200.9152047
mm.

Based on the inspection of missing values in the dataset, there are 11
penguins with missing values across differnt variables. Specifically,
two penguins, one from Togersen Island and one from Biscoe Island, are
missing all information. Regarding the variable “sex”, 11 penguins are
missing this value.

To further explore each variable in detail, there are 3 categories for
variable “Island”, which are: Torgersen, Biscoe, Dream. The species of
sampled penguins are: Adelie, Gentoo, Chinstrap. The minimum, maximum
and mean values for bill length are 32.1 mm, 59.6 mm, and 43.9927928,
respectively. The minimum, maximum and mean values for bill depth are
13.1 mm, 21.5 mm, and 17.1648649, respectively. The minimum and maximum
values for flipper length are 172 mm and 231 mm, respectively. The
minimum, maximum and mean values for body mass are 2700 mm, 6300 mm, and
4207.0570571, respectively.

## Section 2 - Scatterplot of Flipper length vs. Bill Length

![](P8105-HW1_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

The scatterplot has been saved as pdf format and named
“Scatterplot_of_Flipper_Length_and_Bill_Length.pdf”.

# Problem 2

## Section 1 - Creating a data frame

Data frame was created.

    ## # A tibble: 10 × 4
    ##    random_sample vec_logical vec_char vec_factor
    ##            <dbl> <lgl>       <chr>    <fct>     
    ##  1        -0.626 TRUE        w        Level2    
    ##  2         0.184 TRUE        s        Level2    
    ##  3        -0.836 FALSE       e        Level3    
    ##  4         1.60  FALSE       i        Level2    
    ##  5         0.330 TRUE        y        Level1    
    ##  6        -0.820 FALSE       o        Level3    
    ##  7         0.487 FALSE       u        Level2    
    ##  8         0.738 TRUE        t        Level1    
    ##  9         0.576 TRUE        r        Level1    
    ## 10        -0.305 TRUE        p        Level3

## Section 2 - Initial attempt at calculating the mean of each variable in the created data frame

In this initial attempt, I was able to find means for random_sample and
vec_logical, which are 0.1322028 and 0.6, respectively. However, there
were warning messages for vec_char and vec_factor, indicating that these
two variables are not numeric or logical, and thus returned to NA.

## Section 3 - Exploring type conversion: Using ‘as.numeric’

Codes for conversion:

``` r
numeric_logical = as.numeric(pull(problem2samp_df, vec_logical))
numeric_char = as.numeric(pull(problem2samp_df, vec_char))
numeric_factor = as.numeric(pull(problem2samp_df, vec_factor))
```

By using ‘as.numeric’, the vec_logical and vec_factor were successfully
converted to numeric values. However, there was warning message for
vec_char, indicating that this variable does not represent numbers, and
thus its values were converted to NAs.

By checking each variables that were converted to numeric, I found that
the values of numeric_logical are 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, which
consist only 1s and 0s. For numeric_factor, its values are 2, 2, 3, 2,
1, 3, 2, 1, 1, 3, which correspond to 2, 3, and 1. The variable
numeric_char contains NAs.

Retry calculating the mean:

``` r
mean(numeric_logical, na.rm = TRUE)
mean(numeric_char, na.rm = TRUE)
mean(numeric_factor, na.rm = TRUE)
```

By trying to calculate the means again, I could find the means for
numeric_logical and numeric_factor, which are 0.6 and 2, respectively.

In conclusion, logical variables and factors variables can be converted
to numeric or their underlying integer codes, allowing calculating the
mean. While character variables are unable to be converted to numeric,
the R could not assign numeric values to letters or words. Thus, it is
unable to calculate mean for character variables.
